# CS-255
System Analysis and Design Course at SNHU

Briefly summarize the DriverPass project. Who was the client? What type of system did they want you to design?
The customer for  this project was DriverPass a driver’s education business dedicated to providing accessible driver's education for customers to better prepare for their driving tests at the department of motor vehicles. They were looking to implement a web application that is easily accessible where their customers could take online learning material, make reservations for in person driving lessons and purchase packages that allow them to enroll in the learning material.

What did you do particularly well?
For this project, something that I feel I accomplished well was the gathering and interpretation of the customer requirements. This can be demonstrated in the first few sections of the Business Requirements Document  where I lay out the background and expectations of the system. This was very important because it sets a solid foundation to translate the overview and objectives to the actual requirements of the system.

If you could choose one part of your work on these documents to revise, what would you pick? How would you improve it?
The part of the project I would choose to revise would be functional and nonfunctional requirements of the system. Some of my requirements are vague and could be revised or broken up into more requirements that describe the system more directly. An example would be my requirement for purchasing packages. Which needs to be broken into three different requirements that show each of the different packages. This would show the design team exactly what needs to be added and prevent them from miss misinterpreting what the customer is looking for.

How did you interpret the user’s needs and implement them into your system design? Why is it so important to consider the user’s needs when designing?
Interpreting the user needs is crucial for the development of a system. Early Into the design of this project,  I broke the system into three parts from the user’s perspective. Those were the online resources, Driver lesson reservations, and the store part where you can purchase the different packages. From here, I tried to incorporate most of the functionality into these three sections.  The idea behind this was for the system to be simple for the user to use and provide a modular experience that is different each section depending on the user’s role so that each user is having a similar experience, and the system didn’t become to cluttered with functionality.  The use case diagram in my System Design Document attempts to show this by having many of the use cases having relationships with the main functionality of the system. Another example of how I tried to incorporate the users’ needs is shown in my two activity diagrams in the System Design Document where I tried to include escape decisions for the user to restart the process if they weren’t committed to an option.  This comes from my personal experience as a user where we often end up progressing forward in applications only to hit a dead end and must restart. 
Understanding the user needs is critical in making a good application. Taking the users’ needs into consideration means making the application straightforward and smooth to use. Just because all the functionality was included that was required by the business doesn’t mean the user will be able to use the system successfully. The first example that comes to mind is the SNHU online bookstore. The homepage has a link in an area that isn’t intuitive which  caused me to access the bookstore through the course syllabus, which was out of the way. By thinking about the users experience, a system can be designed in a way that makes sense and provides an effective user experience.

How do you approach designing software? What techniques or strategies would you use in the future to analyze and design a system?
The project for this course outlines an effective software design approach that I will likely use in the future. Starting with understanding the goal and reason for the creation of the system. Next, you gather all the requirements of the system through interactions with the business. Now, you have an idea of what the system needs to accomplish to meet the customers’ needs, and you then can translate them into requirements that the system will use to meet the required functionality. Now, you use all the information you have gathered and  interpreted to construct design documents that outline the different processes, behavior, and structure of the system.  This outline works well because it starts of simple and builds from there, where each steps the business requirements start to turn into criteria that match how a system would handle them. I found this method effective, because it got to the point where any of the information needed could be obtained in either of the two documents, and I rarely found myself reverting to the DriverPass transcript. 
The technique that I found very effective was the use of sequence diagram. These diagrams offer a great perspective on how a process would be handled by a system but highlight the different actors and objects the system interacts with. For my project, I made I chose to make a sequence diagram for the buy driving packages use case because the process used the most interactions with the different objects of the system having to access the existing DrivePass system to handle the payment. 
